Dancing Topaz Perch

Medium

# Fees should be calculated based on `position.interest` not `position.collateral`

### Summary

Borrowing fees and funding fees are calculated based on `position.collateral`. However, when a user opens a position, `position.interest` amount of tokens are locked and it means the actual amount that he borrows from the protocol is `position.interest`. As a result, users pay unfair fees and the liquidity providers get less fee than they are entitled to receive.

### Root Cause

In the [`fees.vy:267-272`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-velar-artha/blob/18ef2d8dc0162aca79bd71710f08a3c18c94a36e/gl-sherlock/contracts/fees.vy#L267-L274), fees to pay to the protocol is calculated using the collateral of position.

### Internal pre-conditions

There is BTC/USDT (base/quote) pool.

### External pre-conditions

None

### Attack Path

1. Alice open the long position with leverage 3.
2. Alice close the position and pay fees to the protocol.

### Impact

Users pay fees based on the collateral they provide regardless of the actual amount they borrowed from the protocol. The liquidity providers get less fee than they are entitled to receive. This reduces their incentives to provide liquidity to the protocol and breaks core functionality of the protocol.

### PoC

When Alice opens a long position, she provide collateral as quote token and borrow base token from the protocol using the leverage.
```vyper
122:   virtual_tokens: uint256 = self.MATH.quote_to_base(collateral, ctx) if long else (
123:                             self.MATH.base_to_quote(collateral, ctx) ) 
124:   interest      : uint256 = virtual_tokens * leverage
``` 
Then, the pool locks `interest` amount of base token whose value is equivalent to 3 times of collateral she provide.
When Alice close the position, she pay borrowing fees and funding fees.
However, it uses collateral as the amount of asset, not the actual amount she borrowed from the protocol - `position.interest`.
```vyper
265: def calc(id: uint256, long: bool, collateral: uint256, opened_at: uint256) -> SumFees:
266:     period: Period  = self.query(id, opened_at) 
267:     P_b   : uint256 = self.apply(collateral, period.borrowing_long) if long else (
268:                       self.apply(collateral, period.borrowing_short) )   
269:     P_f   : uint256 = self.apply(collateral, period.funding_long) if long else (
270:                       self.apply(collateral, period.funding_short) )     
271:     R_f   : uint256 = self.multiply(collateral, period.received_long) if long else (
272:                       self.multiply(collateral, period.received_short) )
```

### Mitigation

It is recommended to calculate fees based on `position.interest`, not based on `position.collateral`.