Hot Purple Buffalo

Medium

# Positions Can Fail to Close Due to Accounting Failure

## Summary
Due to how funding fee payments are accounted for in the system, closing a position can fail due to insufficient collateral balance. This violates one of the system invariants that `any open position can always be closed`. It can also interfere with liquidations and cause loss of user funds in the event that the position moves unfavorably in the meantime.

## Vulnerability Detail
Due to the asynchronous nature of how funding fees are paid from one side of a pool to the other, it's possible to end up in a situation where there is not a large enough collateral balance to satisfy the return of collateral to a user's positions. In fact, this is even acknowledged and partially accounted for within [`calc_fees`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-velar-artha/blob/main/gl-sherlock/contracts/positions.vy#L244):

```vyper
  fees            : SumFees       = self.FEES.calc(
                                    pos.pool, pos.long, pos.collateral, pos.opened_at)
...
  avail           : uint256       = pool.base_collateral if pos.long else (
                                    pool.quote_collateral )
...
  funding_received: uint256       = 0 if remaining == 0 else (
                                    min(fees.funding_received, avail) )
```

This funding received is in turn [deducted](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-velar-artha/blob/main/gl-sherlock/contracts/positions.vy#L195) from the collateral of the other side of the pool:

```vyper
# long
    base_collateral : [self.MATH.MINUS(fees.funding_received)],
...
# short
    quote_collateral: [self.MATH.MINUS(fees.funding_received)],
```

However, as acknowledged above due to negative positions the funding receiving can exceed the paid amount, which can result in 0 collateral tokens remaining in the pool for the other side.

At this stage if a position on the other side of the pool tried to close, it would almost always fail:

```vyper
# long
    quote_collateral: [self.MATH.PLUS(fees.funding_paid),
                       self.MATH.MINUS(pos.collateral)],
...
# short
    base_collateral : [self.MATH.PLUS(fees.funding_paid), 
                       self.MATH.MINUS(pos.collateral)],
```

since the position's collateral which is subtracted is always greater or equal to the funding fees it paid. Ironically the only positions which can still be withdrawn at this time are those which have underpaid their funding fees, so `fees.funding_paid` added equals `pos.collateral` subtracted.

## Impact
`core.vy includes a specification for one of the invariants for this protocol:

```vyper
#  - the protocol handles the accounting needed to maintain the sytem invariants:
#    * any open position can always be closed
#        close(open(collateral)) = collateral + pnl - fees
```

This invariant is broken as there are some edge cases where positions are unable to close (they are not always able to). Thus the current code is not to spec. Additionally, closing positions is a time-sensitive operation, especially related to liquidations, and there is the possibility for a position to move unfavorably during the period in which it cannot be closed.

This can be alleviated by additional depositors on the other side of the pool bringing in additional collateral. Additionally, it's not likely to occur, however it is acknowledged by the team as a possibility due to the handling of negative positions in funding fee payments.

## Code Snippet

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
In order to avoid this scenario the funding payment a user is receiving should never exceed the collateral balance of the pool. This accounting mismatch should be accounted for far in advance of this occurring.

Consider modifying the funding payment / receipt structure, either by changing its accounting or making more synchronous payments with receipts.

These approaches can be implemented in a number of ways. For example, when funding fees are underpaid, track the exact quantity of underpayment and apply a pro rata / market adjustment to future receipts of that token funding payment. 