Dancing Topaz Perch

Medium

# Not decreasing oracle timestamp validation leads to DoS for protocol users

## Summary
The protocol only allows equal or increased timestamp of oracle prices whenever an action happens in the protocol.
This validation is wrong since it will lead to DoS for users.

## Vulnerability Detail
The protocol uses RedStone oracle, where token prices are added as a part of calldata of transactions.
In RedStone oracle, it allows prices from 3 minutes old upto 1 minute in the future, as implemented in `RedstoneDefaultsLib.sol`.

```vyper
@internal
def extract_price(
    quote_decimals: uint256,
    payload       : Bytes[224]
) -> uint256:
  price: uint256 = 0
  ts   : uint256 = 0
  (price, ts) = self.EXTRACTOR.extractPrice(self.FEED_ID, payload)

  # Redstone allows prices ~10 seconds old, discourage replay attacks
  assert ts >= self.TIMESTAMP, "ERR_ORACLE"
  self.TIMESTAMP = ts
```

In `oracle.vy`, it extracts the token price from the RedStone payload, which also includes the timestamp of which the prices were generated.
As shown in the code snippet, the protocol reverts when the timestamp extracted from the calldata is smaller than the stored timestamp, thus forcing timestamps only increase or equal to previous one.
This means that the users who execute transaction with price 1 minute old gets reverted when there is another transaction executed with price 30 seconds old.

NOTE: The network speed of all around the world is not same, so there can be considerable delays based on the location, api availability, etc.

By abusing this vulnerability, an attacker can regularly make transactions with newest prices which will revert all other transactions with slightly older price data like 10-20 seconds older, can be all reverted.

## Impact
The vulnerability causes DoS for users who execute transactions with slightly older RedStone oracle data.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-velar-artha/blob/18ef2d8dc0162aca79bd71710f08a3c18c94a36e/gl-sherlock/contracts/oracle.vy#L91-L93

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
It's recommended to remove that non-decreasing timestamp validation.
If the protocol wants more strict oracle price validation than the RedStone does, it can just use the difference between oracle timestamp and current timestamp.
