Bent Teal Wolf

High

# Protocol wrongly assumes stablecoins are worth 1 USD, leading to multiple inconsistencies

## Summary

In Velar, traders are able to `open()` a position to long/short a volatile asset such as BTC, called `base token`. In order to open such a position, the trader must deposit collateral to back it at the same time. This collateral takes the form of a stablecoin such as USDT, called `quote token`.

In this case, the trader has opened a position in the `USDT/BTC` pool. Each pool has **1** associated oracle responsible for providing the USD price of the `base token` (the volatile asset : BTC).

Stablecoins are hardly pegged to 1 USD and their value can fluctuate and reach `$1.01` ; `$0.99` or even higher/lower which happened during the [Silicon Valley Bank Fallout](https://coinmarketcap.com/academy/article/explaining-the-silicon-valley-bank-fallout-and-usdc-de-peg).

## Vulnerability details

The issue arises because the protocol fails to verify the USD price of the `quote token` (the stablecoin).

The `api::CONTEXT()` internal function is responsible for retrieving the USD price of the volatile `base token` before performing multiple internal calculations based on it.

<https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-velar-artha/blob/main/gl-sherlock/contracts/api.vy#L53-L71>

```python
def CONTEXT(
    base_token : address,
    quote_token: address,
    desired    : uint256,
    slippage   : uint256,
    payload    : Bytes[224]
) -> Ctx:
  base_decimals : uint256 = convert(ERC20Plus(base_token).decimals(), uint256)
  quote_decimals: uint256 = convert(ERC20Plus(quote_token).decimals(), uint256)
  # this will revert on error
  price         : uint256 = self.ORACLE.price(quote_decimals,
                                              desired,
                                              slippage,
                                              payload)
  return Ctx({
    price         : price,
    base_decimals : base_decimals,
    quote_decimals: quote_decimals,
  })
```

However, the USD price of the "stable" `quote token` is never read from any oracle.

## Impact

The protocol assumes stablecoins deposited by traders equal `$1.00` while it can derive from at least 1%.

Multiple issues arise from this oversight.

Regarding the opening of a position :
- a trader can open a bigger position than he should be allowed, in case `quote token == $0.99` because the protocol will overvalue the price of his collateral to `$1.00`
- a trader will open a smaller position than expected, in case `quote token == $1.01` because the protocol will undervalue the price of his collateral to `$1.00`

Regarding the liquidation of a position :
- a position can be liquidated earlier than it should, in case `quote token == $1.01` because the protocol will undervalue the price of his collateral to `$1.00`
- a position can be liquidated later than it should, in case `quote token == $0.99` because the protocol will overvalue the price of his collateral to `$1.00`

## PoC

Let the following scenario on the `USDT/BTC` market where :
- `USDT` == `$1.00`
- `BTC`  == `$50,000`
- `liquidation threshold` == `90%` : if the price of `BTC` drops to at least to `$50,000 * 0.9 == $45,000` the position is liquidatable

> For the sake of simplicity, fees have been omitted.

A trader opens a long position with `50,000 USDT` as margin, so his collateral is worth `$50,000`.

Time passes and the price of `USDT` and `BTC` fluctuate like such :
- `USDT` == `$1.01`   : collateral is now worth `1.01 * 50,000 == $50,500`
- `BTC`  == `$45,000`

The trader's actual position is losing but is still above the liquidation threshold because, in this case, the position is liquidatable if the price of `BTC` reaches : `$50,500 * 0.9 == $45,450`.

However, the protocol values `1 USDT` to equal `$1.00` meaning his collateral is still worth : `50,000 USDT * $1.00 == $50,000` rather than `$50,500`.

This means the position is liquidatable if the price of `BTC` reaches : `$50,000 * 0.9 == $45,000` (which is the case).

Thus, the trader's position is subject to liquidation while it should not in reality.

## Tools used

Manual review

## Mitigation

Add another oracle responsible for retrieving the USD price of the stablecoin used in the pool and perform the calculations based upon it.
