Dancing Topaz Perch

Medium

# Some imbalance funding fees are locked in the pool forever

## Summary

Short positions pay imbalance funding fees to long positions. To calculate these imbalance funding fees, the protocol tracks the funding fees that the unit quote token should receive. It then multiplies the long position's collateral by this value to determine the funding fee received for that position. However, The imbalance funding fees paid by short positions and the total amount of funding fees received by long positions differ due to precision loss. As a result, large amount of base tokens are locked in the pool. The same applies to the fees that long positions pay to short positions.

## Vulnerability Detail

For the sake of simplicity, let’s assume the following conditions.
- There are 1,000 long positions in BTC/USDT pool.
- Each long position has 10 USDT as collateral. Total long collateral is `10 * 1000 = 10,000` USDT.
- When long positions are closed, they receive imbalance funding fees from short positions. The total imbalance funding fee from these short positions amounts to 99,999 satoshi.

Given these conditions, let's calculate the imbalance funding fee that each position receives on close.
The imbalance funding fee that each 1 USDT receives is calculated as follows.

```vyper
File: contracts\fees.vy

190:   received_long_term  : uint256 = self.divide(paid_short_term,    fs.long_collateral)

120: def divide(paid: uint256, collateral: uint256) -> uint256:
121:   if collateral == 0: return 0
122:   else              : return (paid * ZEROS) / collateral

```
As `paid_short_term = 99,999`, `fs.long_collateral = 1e10`, `received_long_term` is `99,999 * 1e27 / 1e10 = 99,999 * 1e17`.
When one long position whose collateral is 10 USDT is closed, the amount of imbalance funding fee to receive is `1e7 * 99,999 * 1e17 / 1e27 = 99` satoshi.

```vyper
File: gl-sherlock\contracts\fees.vy

271:     R_f   : uint256 = self.multiply(collateral, period.received_long) if long else (
272:                       self.multiply(collateral, period.received_short) )

126: def multiply(ci: uint256, terms: uint256) -> uint256:
127:   return (ci * terms) / ZEROS
```

If all long positions are closed, total amount of imbalance funding fees are `99 * 1000 = 99,000` satoshi.
Remaining imbalance funding fee is `99,999 - 99,000 = 999` satoshi.
`999` satoshi is almost 0.5$ when 1 BTC is 50K USDT.

In practice, the amount of collateral for long positions may vary from the collateral amounts included in the example. However, the frequency of closing positions is quite high, leading to frequent occurrences of precision loss.
Furthermore, in the BTC/USDT pool, since the base token is BTC, the value of the locked assets is substantial.

## Impact

The imbalance funding fees paid by short positions and the total amount of funding fees received by long positions differ due to precision loss. As a result, large amount of base tokens are locked in the pool. The same applies to the fees that long positions pay to short positions.

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-velar-artha/blob/18ef2d8dc0162aca79bd71710f08a3c18c94a36e/gl-sherlock/contracts/fees.vy#L185-L186

## Recommendation

It is recommended to add function to withdraw assets from the pool.