Amateur Nylon Canary

High

# Incorrect funding fee calculation

## Summary
Funding fee should be based on the open interest's difference between long side and short side, not based on the reserve utilization difference between long side and short side.

## Vulnerability Detail
Funding fee should be based on the open interest's difference between long side and short side. But in velar, the funding fee is based on the reserve utilization between long side and short size.
The problem is that the reserve for base token and quote token is possible to be imbalance. Considering below scenario:
- Alice opens one Long position, position size 50000 USD. Some base tokens will be locked. Assume the base reserve utilization is 10%.
- Bob opens one Short position, position size is 5000 USD. Some quote tokens will be locked.Assume the quote reserve utilization is 20%.
Because we have more open interest in Long side, long side positions should pay funding fee to the short side positions. But because the base reserve utilization is shorter than the quote reserve utilization, the short side with less open interest has to pay funding fee to long side positions.
Considering that LP holders can mint share via any ratio between base token and quote token, the utilization is easy to be manipulated and the pool is quite easy to imbalance.

```vyper
@external
@view
def dynamic_fees(pool: PoolState) -> DynFees:

    long_utilization : uint256 = self.utilization(pool.base_reserves, pool.base_interest)
    short_utilization: uint256 = self.utilization(pool.quote_reserves, pool.quote_interest)
    ...
    funding_long     : uint256 = self.funding_fee(
      borrowing_long, long_utilization,  short_utilization)
```
```vyper
@internal
@view
def funding_fee(base_fee: uint256, col1: uint256, col2: uint256) -> uint256:
  imb: uint256 = self.imbalance(col1, col2)
  if imb == 0: return 0
  else       : return self.check_fee(self.scale(base_fee, imb))
```

## Impact
Size with less open interest may pay funding fees to size with more open interest.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-velar-artha/blob/main/gl-sherlock/contracts/params.vy#L82-L87
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-velar-artha/blob/main/gl-sherlock/contracts/params.vy#L31-L49
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Calculate funding fee based on the open interest.