Dancing Topaz Perch

High

# Funding fees should be calculated based on position volumes rather than utilization ratio

## Summary
Funding fees for perp positions are calculated using utilization ratio of base/quote assets.
This calculation is invalid since the protocol allows imbalance between base/quote assets in the pool.

## Vulnerability Detail
In the protocol, funding fees are paid between long and shot perp traders.
The basic design is that at any moment, if long perp trades happen more than short perp trades, long position openers pay short position openers the funding fee, and vice versa. This funding fees provides stability of the protocol and prevents loss of LPs and the protocol.

However, the funding fee calculation is executed in improper way, as shown below:

```vyper
# How funding_long and funding_short are calculated

funding_long     : uint256 = self.funding_fee(
  borrowing_long, long_utilization,  short_utilization)
funding_short    : uint256 = self.funding_fee(
  borrowing_short, short_utilization,  long_utilization)

...

# funding_fee implementation

def funding_fee(base_fee: uint256, col1: uint256, col2: uint256) -> uint256:
  imb: uint256 = self.imbalance(col1, col2)
  if imb == 0: return 0
  else       : return self.check_fee(self.scale(base_fee, imb))
```

As shown in the code snippet, funding fees are calculated using long and short utilization of the pool.
Thus, if `long utilization > short utilization`, long position openers pay funding fees for short position openers, and vice versa.

The problem is that the protocol allows imbalance between base and quote assets in the pool, for example, assuming `1 BTC = 50,000 USDC`, the value of base/quote assets might be different like `1 BTC + 10,000 USDC`. So as a result, even though `long utilization > short utilization`, actual notional long position size can be smaller than notional short size.

This vulnerability can cause significant loss to LP providers and the overall protocol because of reverse party paying funding fees.

Here's the scenario that loss can happen because of this vulnerability.

- It's bullish time, and everyone believes that BTC price will go up.
- The pool contains 200 BTC($10m in value) + 1M USDC ($1M in value)
- Since people know that BTC prices will go up, relatively much people open long positions.
- Assuming, 100 BTC of notional size of long positions are open. ($5m in value)
- The short openers are the ones who are willing to take risk of BTC price goes up but getting funding fees which might profit them in the end.
- Assuming, 600k USDC of notional size of short positions are open. ($0.6m in value)
- At this moment, `long_utilization = 50, short_utilization = 60`, but in position values, long value = $5m, short value = $0.6m.
- As a result, short position openers pay funding fees to long position openers.

This logic allows more and more long position openers to open their positions and less incentivize short openers.
At the end, it incurs significant losses to LP providers and to the protocol.

## Impact
Loss for LP providers and the protocol.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-velar-artha/blob/18ef2d8dc0162aca79bd71710f08a3c18c94a36e/gl-sherlock/contracts/params.vy#L46-L49

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
The funding fee calculation logic has to be modified so that it uses actual value of positions rather than the utilization ratio to determine which party pays the funding fees.
