Dancing Topaz Perch

Medium

# The `api.burn` function does not check the slippage for the received amount of base and quote tokens

### Summary

In the `api.burn` function, it checks slippage for price variance, but not for received amounts of base and quote tokens.
The received amount of tokens can be changed by price variance and available fees.
Attackers can reduce the fees users can take by frontrunning users. 
As a result, liquidity providers may receive less base and quote tokens than they expected.

### Root Cause

There is no slippage check of based token and quote tokens in the [`api.burn`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-velar-artha/blob/18ef2d8dc0162aca79bd71710f08a3c18c94a36e/gl-sherlock/contracts/api.vy#L104-L128) function.

### Internal pre-conditions

None

### External pre-conditions

None

### Attack Path

1. Alice(lp) mints 100 `lp_token` by depositing 100 in quote token and the total supply of `lp_token` is 100.
There is no price movement for all steps of this scenario.
2. Several long and short positions provides the 10 fees to the pool.
3. Alice is about to burn 100 `lp_token`, allowing her to receive base and quote tokens totally same as 110 in quote token.
4. Bob(attacker) frontruns Alice : he mints 1000 `lp_token` by depositing 1000: the pool's total reverse is `1000 + 100 + 10 = 1110`.
5. Next, Alice's transaction is processed, and she receives `1110 * 100 / 1100 = int(100.9) = 100`.
As a result, Alice only receives 100 in quote token, not 110.

### Impact

Liquidity providers may receive less amount of base and quote tokens then they expected.

### PoC

None

### Mitigation

Add the slippage checking of received amount of tokens in the `api.burn` function.