Daring Shamrock Quail

Medium

# Liquidations can be prevented/DoSd due to the position user being on a token blacklist

### Summary

Since liquidations use a "push" approach, and send the remainder of the collateral to the position user, this can cause liquidations to fail, be temporarily DoSd due to the user either intentionally or unintentionally being put on a token blacklist (USDC, USDT). 

### Root Cause

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-velar-artha/blob/18ef2d8dc0162aca79bd71710f08a3c18c94a36e/gl-sherlock/contracts/core.vy#L336-L344

In Velar, the way that liquidations work is on the "push" principle, i.e. they send the remainder of the collateral in a certain position that is being liquidated (after subtracting the liquidation fees) to the user/owner of the position (the user who opened it): 

```solidity

 if base_amt_final.fee > 0:
    assert ERC20(base_token).transfer(user, base_amt_final.fee, default_return_value=True), "ERR_ERC20"
  if quote_amt_final.fee > 0:
    assert ERC20(quote_token).transfer(user, quote_amt_final.fee, default_return_value=True), "ERR_ERC20"
  if base_amt_final.remaining > 0:
    assert ERC20(base_token).transfer(position.user, base_amt_final.remaining, default_return_value=True), "ERR_ERC20"
  if quote_amt_final.remaining > 0:
    assert ERC20(quote_token).transfer(position.user, quote_amt_final.remaining, default_return_value=True), "ERR_ERC20"

```

The problem is, if the position user is put on a token blacklist, tokens like USDC and USDT which will be utilized as quote tokens in the Velar protocol, have blacklists, which if a certain address is put on, they won't be able to transfer token to/from that address. 

Malicious users can also put themselves intentionally on such blacklists by interacting with sanctioned addresses or interacting with addresses which were part of a recent exploit, etc. and "sanction" themselves.

In order for the liquidation to take place, the liquidation bots would have to wait until the remaining collateral is 0 (which means an increase in bad debt) in order to perform the liquidation. 

### Internal pre-conditions

1. A user's position becomes liquidatable;
2. Internal liquidation bots try to liquidate the said position;
3. Liquidation reverts due to the position user's address being on the quote token's blacklist (USDC, USDT).
4. Liquidation will continue to revert until the collateral becomes 0 due to fees, which means an increasing risk of creating bad debt. 

### External pre-conditions

1. User's address which they used to open the position is put on a USDC/USDT blacklist. 
2. They'd have to wait until the remaining collateral/amount that needs to be sent becomes 0 so that the position is "liquidated".


### Attack Path

1. User opens a position.
2. The user intentionally or unintentionally puts themselves (the address that they used to open the position) / is blacklisted on the USDC and/or USDT token blacklist.
3. The liquidation will fail/revert as long as there is any remaining amount that needs to be sent to the position user.
4. The liquidation bots will have to wait until there's 0 amount left to be sent to the user in order to liquidate the position, which means that bad debt can amount until that happens. 

### Impact

Protocol will have an increasing risk of bad debt forming/amounting, due to liquidations reverting because of users being put on a token (USDC/USDT) blacklist. 

### PoC

/

### Mitigation

Implement a "pull" approach in which the funds that need to be sent to the user are "memorized" in an internal accounting system (mapping) and the user can pull the funds themselves. 