Huge Taupe Starling

Medium

# Inability to hedge during paused state exposes traders to liquidation

## Summary
The admin of the protocol has the ability to pause the opening of positions while keeping liquidation available. In such a case, users with open positions would be unable to hedge their positions during market volatility by opening opposite positions. This exposes them to liquidation or losses that could otherwise be mitigated.

## Vulnerability Detail
As described [here](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-velar-artha/blob/main/gl-sherlock/contracts/params.vy#L107) the admin can pause position openings by setting `MAX_LONG_COLLATERAL` and `MAX_SHORT_COLLATERAL` to zero via the [`set_params()` function](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-velar-artha/blob/main/gl-sherlock/contracts/params.vy#L24-L27).
```python
    # This can be used as a pause button (set to zero to prevent new
    # positions from being opened).
```

While this mechanism prevents users from opening new positions, liquidations remain unpaused, allowing liquidators to act. This is problematic in perpetual DEXes (or generally futures contracts) because of the concept of hedging, which traders use to minimize losses by opening positions in the opposite direction. When new positions are paused, traders are unable to hedge during a volatile market, potentially facing liquidation or losses that could have been mitigated.

As described by [Investopedia](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/h/hedge.asp):
> Hedging is commonly used to offset potential losses in currency trading. A foreign currency trader who is speculating on the movements of a currency might open a directly opposing position to limit losses from price fluctuations. Thus, the trader retains some upside potential no matter what happens.

If a trader holds a large position and the market moves against them, they might open new positions in the opposite direction to hedge their exposure. For example, if a trader is long and the price drops, they may want to short to reduce risk. If new position openings are paused, the trader is unable to hedge and becomes fully exposed to market movements. If the price continues moving against them and reaches the liquidation threshold, they risk liquidation without a chance to prevent the loss.

## Impact
If traders cannot hedge their positions during periods of market volatility due to the paused state, they face potential losses or liquidation. As hedging is an important risk management strategy in futures contracts, this could discourage traders from using the protocol altogether.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-velar-artha/blob/main/gl-sherlock/contracts/params.vy#L107-L108
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-velar-artha/blob/main/gl-sherlock/contracts/params.vy#L24-L27

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Liquidations should be paused when new position openings are paused